### In a multiprogramming and time-sharing environment, several users share the system simultaneously. This situation can result in various security problems.
* What are two such problems?
* Can we ensure the same degree of security in a time-shared machine as in a dedicated machine? Explain your answer.

Answer:
* Access to user data from different users.
* Access to system resources from different users.

Mechanisms have to be inplace to ensure that system resources such as files, memories CPUs can be operated on by only proper authorizaed processes. For example, memory-addressing hardware ensures that a process can execute only within its own address space.

### Under what circumstances would a user be better off using a timesharing system than a PC or a single-user workstation?
Answer: A scientific computing server, a compiler server or a build server.

### Describe the differences between symmetric and asymmetric multiprocessing. What are three advantages and one disadvantage of multiprocessor systems?
Answer: In an `asymmetric multiprocessing` system, each processor is assigned a specific task. For example, a boss processor controls the system, and other processors either look to the boss for instruction or have predefined tasks. In a SMP (symmetric multiprocessing) system, all the processors are peers, there is no boss processor. All processors can execute all tasks. 

Multiprocessing increases computing power, the amount of memory (if CPU has integrated memory controlelr) and multitasking. One disadvantage is multiprocessing can cause a system to change it memory access model from UMA  to NUMA (Non-uniform memory access). UMA is defined as the situation in which access to any RAM from any CPU takes the same amount of time. But with NUMA, some parts of memory may take longer to access, which creates a performance penalty.

### How do clustered systems differ from multiprocessor systems? What is required for two machines belonging to a cluster to cooperate to provide a highly available service?
Answer: Clustered systems differ from multiprocessor systems in that they are composed of two or more individual nodes. Each none can be a single or multiple processors system. For two machines to coorperate to provide a HA service, two nodes need to monitor each other, when one fails, the other one can take the ownership. 

### Consider a computing cluster consisting of two nodes running a database. Describe two ways in which the cluster software can manage access to the data on the disk. Discuss the benefits and disadvantages of each.
Answer: Use MySQL as an example, one of the node is a master node, handles writes and read, the other node is only for read. The replication between the two are handled by MysQL Master/slave configruations, and replication is kept up all the time.

### How are network computers different from traditional personal computers? Describe some usage scenarios in which it is advantageous to use network computers.
Answer: Network computers are essentially terminals that undertand web-based computing, it doesn't have the same level of hardware configuration as traditional personal computers. Network computer has minimal memory, disk and processor powers. It can be used where users don't need a lot of computing power, such as internet bar.

### What is the purpose of interrupts? How does an interrupt differ from a trap? Can traps be generated intentionally by a user program? If so, for what purpose?
Answer: Interrupt provides a way of stop CPU's current executions and swich to a service interrput routine. A trap is a software-generated interrupt caused either by an error or by a specific request from a user program. An interrupt is something generated by the hardware (devices like the hard disk, graphics card, I/O ports, etc).

### Many SMP systems have different levels of caches; one level is local to each processing core, and another level is shared among all processing cores. Why are caching systems designed this way?
Answer: So that the whole system can be more efficient. Allow memory sharing can avoid some CPU idles and inefficiencies.